---
layout: post
title: Lab meeting - Michaela Socolof and Laurestine Bradford
date: 2022-10-04
published: true
inline: false
---

At this week's MCQLL meeting, **Michaela Socolof** and **Laurestine Bradford** will each give a talk about their current work.

__When:__ {{ page.date | date: '%A, %B %-d' }}, 15h00--16h00 (Montréal time, UTC-4)

__Where:__  MCQLL meetings this semester are in hybrid format.  We will meet in-person in room 117 of the McGill Linguistics Department, [1085 Dr-Penfield](https://maps.mcgill.ca/?cmp=1&txt=EN&id=Penfield1085). If you'd like to attend virtually, Zoom meetings will be held [here](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/84089215248?pwd=UkpMK1FEV2dTaVpGSDMzLzJtNWFhUT09).

All are welcome to attend.

#### Michaela Socolof
Title: _Partial information decomposition and compositionality_
Abstract:
<blockquote>
Partial information decomposition (PID) is an information-theoretic framework for decomposing mutual information; this talk will discuss its potential for quantifying compositionality. I'll begin by presenting the results of a study applying PID to the morphology domain by studying the task of quantifying fusionality, then discuss avenues for extending this approach to the word and phrase domain. 
</blockquote>

#### Laurestine Bradford
Title: _Towards a Compositional Semantics for Dependency Syntax_
Abstract:
<blockquote>
A language's syntax tends be documented before its semantics, but syntactic structures themselves already contain information about meaning. So, if we could find a way to easily extract the meaning from syntactic relationships, it could speed up the process of discovering the associated compositional semantic structures in a language. In this talk, I will present ongoing work attempting to find systematic mappings between Universal Dependencies (a massively cross-linguistic dependency syntax annotation scheme) and meaning structures. In particular, I will present promising directions in the treatment of determiners and verb argument structure.
</blockquote>

