---
layout: post
title: Lab meeting - Emi Baylor
date: 2020-11-04
published: true
inline: false 
---

At this week's lab meeting, [**Emi Baylor**](/people/baylor.emi), a masters student at McGill School of Computer Science and Mila, will be presenting on her work with morphological productivity. 

- **{{ page.date | date: '%A, %B %-d' }}**, **13:30–14:30** (Montreal time, UTC-4).
- Meetings are via Zoom. If you would like to attend and have not already signed up for the MCQLL mailing list, please fill out [this form](https://forms.gle/rdi5HkZpJHbEWsxD6) as soon as possible, because there is registration step that needs to be completed after that.

#### Abstract

<blockquote>
	This work investigates and empirically tests theories of linguistic productivity. Language users are able to make infinite use of finite means, meaning that a finite number of words and morphemes can be used to create an infinite number of utterances. This is largely due to linguistic productivity, which allows language users to create and understand novel expressions through stored, reusable units. One example of a productive process across language is plural morphology, which generalizes the use of plural morphemes in a language to novel words. This work investigates and empirically tests theories of how this generalization of forms is learned and carried out, through data from the complex German plural noun system.
</blockquote>

#### Bio
 
Emi Baylor is a masters student at McGill Computer Science and Mila. She is interested in computational morphology, multilingual NLP, and low resource languages, as well as the combination of all three. 

