---
layout: post
title: Lab meeting - Eva Portelance
date: 2021-03-11
published: true
inline: false 
---

This week's lab meeting will feature a talk from [**Eva Portelance**](people/portelance.eva), titled
_Learning Strategies for the Emergence of Language in Iterated Learning_.

- **{{ page.date | date: '%A, %B %-d' }}**, **13:30–14:30** (Montreal time, UTC-5).
- Meetings are via Zoom. If you are interested in attending any of the meetings
  this semester, please take a moment now to register at [this
  link](https://umontreal.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJItdu6rrj4vH9JbKXKlNpMbPPm8IUJdWP7Q).
  After approval, you will receive a confirmation email with the link to join. 

#### Abstract

<blockquote>
In emergent communication studies, agents play communication games in order to develop a set of linguistic conventions referred to as the emergent language. Here, we compare the effects of a variety of learning functions and play phases on the efficiency and effectiveness of emergent language learning. We do so both within a single generation of agents and across generations in an iterated learning setting. We find that allowing agents to engage in forms of selfplay ultimately leads to more effective communication. In the iterated learning setting we compare different approaches to intergenerational learning. We find that selfplay used jointly with imitation can also lead to effective communication in this setting. Additionally, we find that encouraging agents to successfully communicate with previous generations rather than to successfully imitate them can lead to both effective language and efficient learning. Finally, we introduce a new dataset and a new agent architecture with split visual perception and representation modules in order to conduct our experiments.
</blockquote>

#### Bio

[Eva](people/portelance.eva) is currently a Ph.D. candidate at Stanford University in Linguistics, working with Mike Frank and Dan Jurafsky. She completed a B.A. Honours in Linguistics and Computer Science at McGill University in 2017. She is interested in linguistic structure and language learning both in humans and machines. This work was started during an internship at Microsoft Research Montreal.
