---
layout: post
title: Lab meeting - Yang Xu
date: 2022-10-18
published: true
inline: false
---

At this week's MCQLL meeting, 
**Yang Xu**, ​from the Department of Computer Science and Cognitive Science Program at University of Toronto, will give a talk titled 
**_Word meaning extension in humans and machines_**.
An abstract of the talk follows.

__When:__ {{ page.date | date: '%A, %B %-d' }}, 15h00--16h00 (Montreal time, UTC-4)

__Where:__  MCQLL meetings this semester are in hybrid format.  We will meet in-person in room 117 of the McGill Linguistics Department, [1085 Dr-Penfield](https://maps.mcgill.ca/?cmp=1&txt=EN&id=Penfield1085). If you'd like to attend virtually, Zoom meetings will be held [here](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/84089215248?pwd=UkpMK1FEV2dTaVpGSDMzLzJtNWFhUT09).

All are welcome to attend.

#### Abstract:
<blockquote>
Humans often make creative use of words to express novel meanings, a phenomenon known as word meaning extension (WME). WME is one of the most commonly attested forms of lexical creativity, but machines are relatively impoverished in interpreting novel word meanings. I describe research aimed at closing this machine-human gap from the dual perspectives of human cognition and natural language processing. I first present work that formalizes the theory of chaining as probabilistic models to account for the cognitive mechanisms of WME through time. I then show that similar models with enriched knowledge can be applied to simulating children’s lexical innovation and improving the automated processing of creative lexical use such as slang. I close by discussing open issues toward a generative approach to modelling the lexicon.
</blockquote>
